If you're in the repo,
you'll probably see a test folder.
There's some snapshot stuff in there.
And we'll talk about that in a little bit.
But there's a file in
here called helper js.
I wanna walk you through
this file right quick,
cuz it's doing some
pretty interesting stuff.
And I want you to understand
what's happening here,
cuz we're gonna use it
to write some tests.
So this file tests helpers js,
a couple things that are happening,
is basically creating a, there's
a function here called createTestServer.
And it takes in a context object.
And what it's doing is it's creating
a completely new Apollo server based off
our type definitions,
based off our resolvers.
But you'll see these two new properties
that you've probably never seen before.
This first one here that
says mockEntireSchema, so
I have this set to false.
And this basically is a property that
coexists with this one below it, mocks.
So let's talk about mocks first.
mocks basically means, and
this is where a graph feels legit.
Because all your type defs are typed,
as in they have a type.
It's really easy to generate mocks for
them now, right?
If I know a field is a string,
then I can just use any generator that
I want to return a random string.
If I know a field is an integer, I can use
any generator I want to return an integer.
If you put mocks true on a server,
that's exactly what it's gonna do.
It's gonna ignore your resolvers, and
it's gonna mock them out with random data.
And they're always gonna fit
the type that you put in the schema.
They might be weird things that don't
make sense, but the data is valid, and
it fits your schema.
So that's the sweet thing about GraphQL,
is that you can just turn on mocks and
never have the right server.
This is a good feature if
you're on a front end team, and
the backend team is still
writing the resolvers.
And they're still doing all this stuff.
You can just turn mock true on the server.
And you can build your whole front end app
without any of the resolvers being done.
And then when they turn the resolvers on,
you still have to change your code,
nothing changes for you.
So you're good to go.
We're gonna use them in the test.
So by default, we get all the resolvers
mocked out for us for free.
And in this field up here, mock entire
schema false, this is basically saying,
hey, don't mock all the resolvers because
I'm still gonna give you some resolvers.
Only mock the the resolvers
that I don't use.
That's basically saying with this option
in combination, it's gonna allow us inside
of our test to mock out specific resolvers
that we're testing in that instance, and
still have the other ones be
automatically mocked out.
So it's given us the control over to opt
into whatever resolvers we want to control
for this specific test case.
And then later saying, actually,
this one, I don't really care.
Cuz sometimes inside of a resolver, where
you're testing it, you might wanna say,
well, I wanna see what happens if
the database returns an error.
Or I wanna see what happens
if you're not authorized.
So you want a different test cases,
so you need more control over it.
So that's why we have this option to
be able to opt in opt out of having
an automatic mocking on a resolver level.
And then, obviously,
we have this context function that just
returns whatever context that you pass it.
And that's it, and then we use this really
nifty createTestClient function from
ApolloServer testing that
does exactly what it says.
It takes a server, and
it creates a test client.
This is gonna return an object with
a query method and a mutation method.
Just like you would use in GraphQL
playground, you use a query or mutation.
That's what's gonna return.
We can use query in our tests.
We can use mutation in our tests and
issue a query and
a mutation against
the server that we created.
Now we can get a result.
So for instance, if we go to the query
test, you'll see an example of that.
So you can see here I'm
requiring my query test server.
I'm making a query for
a feed that has all these items on it.
So just like you would on the client,
I'm making a query, and
I create my test server.
And this is where you can mock things out.
So the name of the test server
takes a context object.
So I know some of our stuff in our
server requires authentication and
requires a user.
So I'll mock the user out on the context
object and put a user there.
I know that most of our resolvers
have this models object.
So I mocked that out.
I say models.
I know that the feed resolver is only
interested in models that I post.
So I put that there.
And I know it's using the findmany
method cuz I looked at the code.
And I'll just mock that out with jest.
So if you've never use jest before,
don't worry,
you literally don't have to use this.
You can use a regular function here.
This is only appropriate
if you wanna spy on it and
figure out how many times it was called,
what it was called with.
But if you're not interested in that,
which actually, in this case, we're not,
you could just put regular function error.
It doesn't matter,
as long as it returns something.
And this is what I was saying.
Sometimes you wanna be able to override
the resolvers yourself with their value.
So you would say,
don't mock the entire schema,
because I still wanna do things like this.
If you didn't have that Boolean for
not mocking the entire schema,
this resolver will get ignored.
And GraphQL would mock it out
completely different every single time,
which is not predictive.
Cuz every time you start the server,
it's gonna generate new mocks for it.
Those mocks get generated.
So they're not predictive.
So you can't really write
tests against them.
So you wanna do this.
And here is something that's really cool.
If you think about it,
we're gonna get back a JSON object.
And it's always gonna look
the same no matter what.
So we can do what's
called snapshot testing.
Anybody ever heard of snapshot testing,
right?
It's mostly for UI, right?
So you would, for
React, you might do snapshot testing
where you wanna render this component.
Get the HTML output of it,
whatever the output of it is, and
you save the output to a file.
And then next time when you run the test,
you get the output of that you compare
the two, they're not exactly the same,
that snapshot failed.
So that's basically what we're doing here,
just as automatic snapshot
testing built in.
We don't have to do anything.
All you have to do is just
say to match snapshot.
And basically what's gonna happen is if
you look in this folder called snapshots,
this will be an example of a snapshot.
So I ran this test before, and
the response I got back was exactly this.
So if I run the test again
with the exact same values,
I should get back exactly the same
thing with exactly the same format.
So it should just match.
And that's what snapshot testing is.
Sometimes you actually did make a change,
and you do wanna update the snapshot.
So then, jest has a function that says,
okay, actually,
I did wanna make this change,
the format should have changed.
So update all the snapshots.
And it will go in and
clear out all the old ones and
make new ones as new baselines.
And now your new snapshots
will be updated.
So that's one way, and that's pretty
much what we're gonna do here.
But you can also do the other ways,
I mean,
you can just get the data
back from this response.
And this is like I expect
res.data.id to be one.
I expect res.data.feed.message to be
whatever message that I put in here,
you can do that.
But I mean, at the end of the day,
you're checking all the properties
you got [INAUDIBLE] a snapshot.
So it's automatic.
Okay, now to execute it,
I'm just gonna do yarn test.
So once the test run,
you can see it passed because my
snapshots are exactly the same.
If I changed one of these two, that's
gonna completely change the snapshot,
and it's probably not gonna match.
Well, it failed and
you can see it shows you the difference.
We got one in the snapshot that saves on
the file, but the new one generated too,
so that's wrong.
So now you know your stuff's not right.
So you can fix your test.
Unless you mean to make that change, and
you will just update all your snapshots.